Okay, forget about installing Acer. What
if I told you there's a web editor where
you can generate characters, maps,
icons, and even animations with AI and
then refine them all in the same place.
Pixelama is an open-source pixel editor,
and Pixelab works as an extension for
it, just like it does for a sprite.
Right now, you can use it through the
web version of Pixelorama on the
pixelab.ai
site under the editor tab. Here's
why it actually matters. One, it's
browserbased, so you can run it even in
your potato laptop. Two, Pixel Lab gives
you instant asset generation. And three,
you can touch up and refine directly
inside Pixelorama. Here's the plan.
We're going to make a hero character, a
sidescroller level, UI icons, and a
walking animation. Four assets in 10
minutes. Let's go. So, first things
first, as you can see, we have all the
available tools from Pixel Lab right
here. So, you have the create image
tools, the edit image, rotate,
animations, maps, in painting, reduce
color, and of course, the create
character, which is what we're going to
use to create our character. So, let's
go to the character creator and let's
type in a fighter wearing a boxing
outfit. Let's click create. And here you
can see all the settings. We'll do 64x
64. Let's do sidescroller. And here you
can see it's still in beta. So, expect
manual touch-ups. And here you can
choose the presets.
Here's some other examples, but we'll do
the default for now. And let's go to
advanced options and let's do four
directions cuz we don't need the eight
directions right now. And of course,
let's choose the outline style. Let's do
single color. Let's do basic shading and
low detail. And let's click generate.
There we can see our character
generating.
And there we have it in our four
rotations. Of course, we can edit it in
Pixelama just by clicking the box. And
it'll open right up in Pixelama.
And I'll just fix his eye real quick and
do other details like the outlines and
stuff. And just fix each direction just
to make sure it's all clean before we
animate it. And there we go. Just a
couple more details. And just click save
to character creator. and you go back
and you can see your new rotation all
cleaned up. Now let's generate a tile
set. Pixel app has a built-in
sidescroller tile set creator. So for
top tile description I'll type grass and
for the center tile I'll do rocks
shading on basic details on low and the
tile size 32x 32. Then hit generate.
And there we go. Now I'm going to go to
the tile map layer and do 32x 32 and hit
okay.
And I'm going to copy. So I'm going to
select everything. I'm going to copy it
and paste it in the tile map layer. And
there we have it. In the tiles tab, we
can see all the tiles.
So I'm going to create a new frame.
And I'm going to paint a small map
just so we have a an idea of what it
could look like. I'm also going to
create a small floating platform
since this is platformer.
And there we go. Now, let's move on to
making some UI icons. Let's go to the
create small medium image tool because
that's specifically for 32x 32 or
smaller. Let's try a heart icon. Let's
do size scroller and let's click
generate. We're just going to do the
default settings for this one. And look
at that. We got a pretty clean heart
icon. For the next one, let's do create
medium to excel image. We'll use the
current size, which is 32x32.
Now, this is often worth trying if
create small to medium image is having
trouble since it tends to have better
language comprehension and can pick up
on the prompt more reliably. And let's
try a flat shaded gold coin.
Let's do sidescroller south single color
outline flat shading detail. And let's
click generate. And there we go. We got
a pretty nice coin with dollar sign.
And you can always go and reduce colors.
You can do auto reduce colors or you can
do specify number of colors which we can
even reduce it to 10 maybe. And there we
go. You can always play around with that
and see what works best. And I'm going
to go to effects procedural
outline.
And let's do inside of the image. And I
selected this color by going to the pick
color and selecting it. And there we go.
We have her heart and her coin. And of
course, remember you can always click
try again and see if you get a better
generation. All right. So next up, we're
going to move on to animations. So,
let's go back to our character in our
character creator. And here where it
says add your first animation, let's
click that. Okay. So, here we can see
the new renovated
animation page with all the animations
available for our character. So, since
we're doing sidescroller, I was thinking
we can do walking animation. And here we
have it, walking. I'll pick west. And
let's do walking six frames. Selected
that. And now we click generate live.
And here you can see how your animation
is being made. And there we have a
walking animation. Quick reminder,
remember that sidescroller is still in
beta, so you might need to inper.
[Music]
Now, let's go to edit in Pixelama
and let's just fix the head real quick.
There we have our animation.
As you can see, the head
is kind of wonky.
I'm going to fix this real quick. I'm
going to paint this here.
[Music]
Just fix this.
And now I'm going to select it and I'm
going to paste it here. Maybe erase
this. There we go.
I'm going paste it again. There we go.
Here as well.
And just remove the pixels we don't
want. And here one more time. And there
you go. Whenever you're done finishing
your edits,
you can just click save to character
creator. And you can go back here, click
refresh, and there we have our walking
animation.
All right. So now let's try in painting.
So let's go to animate.
You could do animate with skeleton but
today we're going to do animate with
text.
Here you can see the inpainting layer.
We set the reference image. We describe
our character. So spider wearing a
boxing outfit walk animation sizeer.
We're doing west and let's do initial
image. So for this example here, we can
get a little more of the red pants or
shorts from the character. So let's just
paint a little bit of that here. Right.
And then we can select the outline color
and just make a nice outline of the leg
that dividing. And here also we can do
the same thing. So we just draw a little
more of the short also here and then
select with the eyropper tool which is
the letter O in pixelama or right here
our color picker and just draw this
outline so the model knows what leg to
use. And then we go to the in painting
layer and just draw over the legs or
whatever parts you want to edit of
course. But here we're doing the legs.
We edited this part as well. So here you
can see the impainted areas. We'll do
modify current layer. We're using the
initial image. And let's click generate.
I'm going to hide the inpainting layer
so we can see the outcome. And there you
go. We got a better short. Of course,
you can edit the other frames cuz as you
can see here, maybe we could maybe make
the short look more red here or here as
well. Also here. And of course, you can
always try again. A good recommendation
is not to stick with the first
generation because you never know if
you're going to get a better one.
And of course, you can always play with
the image guidance weight. You can
increase it to have more details from
the reference image or you can lower it
depending on your use case. And you can
always play with the initial image
strength. You can lower it if you wanted
to use more of the reference image
instead of the initial image. Or you can
strengthen it if you want it to look
more like the initial image. Then just
click save to character creator and it
should be back in your character creator
page. And for the final step, let's do
exporting. So for the UI icon and for
the tile set, you could do file and
export and you could just export the
images as they are. But for tile sets,
we have specific exporting options. So
if you go to map and create tile
setcroller
and you go to transform to tile set here
you get the option to export as a wang
tile set as a 15 tile tile set or a 3x3
tile set which is used in go dot. If you
want we can just transform it just so
you can see. And there you have it. And
here you go to export and you can export
it with just the selected frame if you
want only just one frame. Here you can
do all frames because we only have one
visible layers of course and you can
choose the formats.
You can of course resize it but for
exporting assets
there's no need really. So for the
character, you could do download as a
GIF, which will download the animation,
or you could do export, which will
download everything you've created. So
if you have more animations or more
directions, you'll get a zip file, which
contains all the rotations and all the
animations,
which in our case, we only have one. So,
if you like this video, make sure to
leave a comment, like, and subscribe,
and turn the notification bell on so you
don't miss any of our videos. Thanks for
watching. I'll get you in the next